.TH lacctparse 1 "November 6, 2012" uxdstools uxdstools

.SH NAME

lacctparse \- parse posix accounts in LDAP stores

.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 11 
lacctparse [\-H <host URI>] [\-m <SASL mech>] [\-u <authcid>] [\-D <bind DN>] [\-p <passwd>] [\-P] 

[\-U <username> \-G <groupname> [\-S <sudoer>]] [\-L <filename>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ul
lacctparse 
is used to obtain information about POSIX user, group, or sudoer (if available) accounts located within an LDAP datastore.

SASL authentication support is available if OpenLDAP libraries are linked against Cyrus\-SASL and are intact at compile time. This is mostly untested (except GSSAPI) but should be working with any mech the server has available (depending on your local SASL install). Krb5/GSSAPI support is available if Heimdal kerberos libraries are avaliable at compile time. Upon authentication, a kerberos ticket can be obtained and placed in the default or a custom credentials cache, and used for subsequent authentication calls with this or other programs (or any GSSAPI enabled client for that matter) in the uxdstools suite.

Accounts that can be parsed are user, group and sudoer. The location of these accounts is taken from information gathered at compile time along with the default ldap context (ldap.conf) of the local client machine. Search filters are then built based upon input to parse the correct account type then narrow down to the account itself, with the information it contains.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
\-D 
.ul
DN

Distinguished name to used to bind to LDAP directory. If no SASL support is intact, this defaults to a simple bind operation. This can also be used with a be used with a mech (see \-m below as an authorization bind identity (authzid).
.TP
\-p 
.ul
passwd 

Use passwd as password for authentication (Simple or SASL).
.TP
\-P
Prompt for password, used instead of specifying the password on the command line. With GSSAPI support, this input will be used to obtain a kerberos tgt.
.TP        
\-K
.ul
FILE:/path/to/x509_certificate

With GSSAPI enabled, this allows for rudimentary PK-INIT authentication using an x509 certificate.  At this time it does not accept passphrases for private keys.  It will gain a kadmin/changepw ticket for use in changing principal passwords. Requires -u <krb5Principal> argument.
.TP
\-T
.ul
FILE:/path/to/keytab

With GSSAPI enabled, this allows for authentication using a Kerberos 5 keytab. It will gain a kadmin/changepw ticket for use in changing principal passwords. Requires -u <krb5Principal> argument.
.TP
\-H 
.ul
host URI 

LDAP server URI to access, optional as it default to what is in ldap.conf. "ldaps://" and "ldapi://" URIs are OK, as long as your underlying OpenLDAP libs support this. e.g. "ldap://server.example.com"
.TP
\-m
.ul    
mech 

Mechanism used for SASL auth, e.g DIGEST-MD5, GSSAPI.
.TP
\-u 
.ul
authcid

SASL auth identity used to gain access to the LDAP directory service. Format depends on the SASL mech being used... With GSSAPI no mech is required, this input will be used as the short principal name to gain a kerberos ticket granting ticket for auth.
.TP
\-r 
.ul    
realm 

Realm for SASL identity, some callbacks need this.  Not really tested at this point.
.TP
\-c
.ul
ccache

Location for krb5 credentials cache. This can be a path, e.g. /tmp/krb5cc100 or preceded by 'METHOD:', as in FILE:/tmp/krb5cc100 or KCM:100. This is optional and if not selected will yield to the default kerberos context.
.TP
\-U 
.ul
user

Name (uid attribute) of the user you wish to parse.  If this is given with no argument, then it will give a listing of the DN's of all POSIX user accounts in the directory using the search filter (&(objectClass=posixAccount)(uid=*). 
.TP
\-G 
.ul
group

Name (cn attribute) of the group you wish to parse.  If this is given with no argument, then it will give a listing of the DN's of all POSIX group accounts in the directory using the search filter (&(objectClass=posixGroup)(cn=*)).
.TP
\-S
.ul    
sudoer

Name (sudoUser attribute) of the sudoer you wish to parse.  If this is given with no argument, then it will give a listing of the DN's of all SUDOer accounts in the directory using the search filter (&(objectClass=sudoRole)(sudoUser=*)).
.TP
\-L
.ul
filename

Export LDIF of account selected to filename, which is a path: e.g. -L /tmp/myuser.ldif - will exit with an error if that path is not writable by the user executing the command. Any binary attributes (i.e. krb5Key) will be represented in base64 notation. 
.TP
\-v|\-\-version 

Shows the version info and exits.
.TP
\-h|\-\-help 

Shows verbose output of options and exits.
.TP
\-d 

Shows some debugging output from the command.


.SH OUTPUT
For a user parse, the output looks like this:

------- POSIX User Report: luser ------- 

cn: luser mail: luser@winners.net 

krb5PrincipalName: luser@WINNERS.NET 

uid: luser 

uidNumber: 10001

gidNumber: 10001

homeDirectory: /home/luser 

loginShell: /bin/sh

krb5PasswordEnd: 20080315000055Z

sn: Brown

givenName: Michael

gecos:  Brown,Michael;Lusers for Winners



For a group parse, like this:



------- POSIX Group Report: slakaz ------- 

cn: slakaz

memberUid: luser 

memberUid: sunshine

memberUid: onedude 

gidNumber: 10001 

description: Lusers for Winners



For a sudoer, like this:



------- SUDOer Report: %winners ------- 

cn: %winners 

sudoCommand: /usr/bin/command

sudoCommand: /usr/sbin/binary

sudoOption: !authenticate



.SH AUTHOR
Michael Brown <mikal@mikro\-net.com>
