.TH lgroupadd 1 "November 6, 2012" uxdstools uxdstools
.SH NAME
lgroupadd \- Add POSIX group accounts in LDAP stores

.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 10
lgroupadd [\-H <host URI>] [\-m <SASL mech>] [\-u <authcid>] [\-D <bind DN>] [\-p <passwd>] [\-P]

[\-G <group> \-I <description> [\-M <memberUid>]] [\-N <gidNumber>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ul
lgroupadd
is used to add a POSIX group account in an LDAP datastore.  The imported account includes all attributes neccesary to access and use UNIX systems.

SASL authentication support is available if OpenLDAP libraries are linked against Cyrus\-SASL and are intact at compile time. This is mostly untested (except GSSAPI) but should be working with any mech the server has available (depending on your local SASL install). Krb5/GSSAPI support is available if Heimdal kerberos libraries are avaliable at compile time. Upon authentication, a kerberos ticket can be obtained and placed in the default or a custom credentials cache, and used for subsequent authentication calls with this or other programs (or any GSSAPI enabled client for that matter) in the uxdstools suite.

The program takes arguments to fill in neccesary data in order to correctly create the POSIX group account.  If -M is selected, that account uid name is then added as a memberUid attribute to this group account in the LDAP tree (multiple entries if separated by commas).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-D
.ul
DN

Distinguished name to used to bind to LDAP directory. If no SASL support is intact, this defaults to a simple bind operation. This can also be used with a be used with a mech (see \-m below as an authorization bind identity (authzid).
.TP
\-p
.ul
passwd

Use passwd as password for authentication (Simple or SASL).
.TP
\-P
Prompt for password, used instead of specifying the password on the command line. With GSSAPI support, this input will be used to obtain a kerberos tgt.
.TP
\-K
.ul
FILE:/path/to/x509_certificate

With GSSAPI enabled, this allows for rudimentary PK-INIT authentication using an x509 certificate.  At this time it does not accept passphrases for private keys.  It will gain a kadmin/changepw ticket for use in changing principal passwords. Requires -u <krb5Principal> argument.
.TP
\-T
.ul
FILE:/path/to/keytab

With GSSAPI enabled, this allows for authentication using a Kerberos 5 keytab. It will gain a kadmin/changepw ticket for use in changing principal passwords. Requires -u <krb5Principal> argument.
.TP
\-H
.ul
host URI

LDAP server URI to access, optional as it default to what is in ldap.conf. "ldaps://" and "ldapi://" URIs are OK, as long as your underlying OpenLDAP libs support this. e.g. "ldap://server.example.com"
.TP
\-m
.ul
mech

Mechanism used for SASL auth, e.g DIGEST-MD5, GSSAPI.
.TP
\-u
.ul
authcid

SASL auth identity used to gain access to the LDAP directory service. Format depends on the SASL mech being used... With GSSAPI no mech is required, this input will be used as the short principal name to gain a kerberos ticket granting ticket for auth.
.TP
\-r
.ul
realm

Realm for SASL identity, some callbacks need this.  Not really tested at this point.
.TP
\-c
.ul
ccache

Location for krb5 credentials cache. This can be a path, e.g. /tmp/krb5cc100 or preceded by 'METHOD:', as in FILE:/tmp/krb5cc100 or KCM:100. This is optional and if not selected will yield to the default kerberos context.
.TP
\-G 
.ul
group

Name (cn attribute) of the user you wish to add.  Required.
.TP
\-I
.ul
description

Brief description of group. Required, populates the description attribute of the POSIX group account.
.TP
\-M
.ul
memberUid

User account to add to group.  Optional, can be left empty. Adds and populates a memberUid attribute to the POSIX group account.  If multiple entries are desired, then separate with commas: e.g. -M usr1,usr2,usr3,...
.TP
\-N
.ul
gidNumber

GID number for the group.  Optional, there is a search done for the highest gidnumber in the directory, and one is added to this number to produce the default gidNumber populated.
.TP
\-v|\-\-version

Shows the version info and exits.
.TP
\-h|\-\-help

Shows verbose output of options and exits.
.TP
\-d

Shows some debugging output from the command.

.SH GROUP STRUCTURE

A default group's ldif looks something like this:

    # slakaz, unix, foobar.pvt
    dn: cn=slakaz,ou=unix,dc=foobar,dc=pvt
    cn: slakaz
    description: SLAKAZ System Group
    objectClass: top
    objectClass: posixGroup
    gidNumber: 1111
    memberUid: luser


.SH AUTHOR
Michael Brown <mikal@mikro\-net.com>

