.TH lgroupdel 1 "November 6, 2012" uxdstools uxdstools
.SH NAME
lgroupdel \- Delete POSIX group accounts in LDAP stores

.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 10 
lgroupdel [\-H <host URI>] [\-m <SASL mech>] [\-u <authcid>] [\-D <bind DN>] [\-p <passwd>] [\-P]

[\-U <groupname>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ul
lgroupdel 
is used to delete a POSIX group account located in an LDAP datastore. It deletes the DN and all associated attributes.

.ul
Nota Bene!
Unless this is allowed by your local directory service, no user account can have the group as part of their "DN", an " 
.ul
operation not allowed on non\-leaf
" error will occur on the attempt.

SASL authentication support is available if OpenLDAP libraries are linked against Cyrus\-SASL and are intact at compile time. This is mostly untested (except GSSAPI) but should be working with any mech the server has available (depending on your local SASL install). Krb5/GSSAPI support is available if Heimdal kerberos libraries are avaliable at compile time. Upon authentication, a kerberos ticket can be obtained and placed in the default or a custom credentials cache, and used for subsequent authentication calls with this or other programs (or any GSSAPI enabled client for that matter) in the uxdstools suite.

This program only takes one account argument, the cn name of the group account to be deleted.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-D
.ul
DN

Distinguished name to used to bind to LDAP directory. If no SASL support is intact, this defaults to a simple bind operation. This can also be used with a be used with a mech (see \-m below as an authorization bind identity (authzid).
.TP
\-p
.ul
passwd

Use passwd as password for authentication (Simple or SASL).
.TP
\-P
Prompt for password, used instead of specifying the password on the command line. With GSSAPI support, this input will be used to obtain a kerberos tgt.
.TP
\-K
.ul
FILE:/path/to/x509_certificate

With GSSAPI enabled, this allows for rudimentary PK-INIT authentication using an x509 certificate.  At this time it does not accept passphrases for private keys.  It will gain a kadmin/changepw ticket for use in changing principal passwords. Requires -u <krb5Principal> argument.
.TP
\-H
.ul
host URI

LDAP server URI to access, optional as it default to what is in ldap.conf. "ldaps://" and "ldapi://" URIs are OK, as long as your underlying OpenLDAP libs support this. e.g. "ldap://server.example.com"
.TP
\-m
.ul
mech

Mechanism used for SASL auth, e.g DIGEST-MD5, GSSAPI.
.TP
\-u
.ul
authcid

SASL auth identity used to gain access to the LDAP directory service. Format depends on the SASL mech being used... With GSSAPI no mech is required, this input will be used as the short principal name to gain a kerberos ticket granting ticket for auth.
.TP
\-r
.ul
realm

Realm for SASL identity, some callbacks need this.  Not really tested at this point.
.TP
\-c
.ul
ccache

Location for krb5 credentials cache. This can be a path, e.g. /tmp/krb5cc100 or preceded by 'METHOD:', as in FILE:/tmp/krb5cc100 or KCM:100. This is optional and if not selected will yield to the default kerberos context.
.TP
\-G 
.ul
group 

Name (cn attribute) of the group you wish to delete.  Required. 

.TP
\-v|\-\-version

Shows the version info and exits.
.TP
\-h|\-\-help

Shows verbose output of options and exits.
.TP
\-d

Shows some debugging output from the command.

.SH CAVEAT
.BR
As stated above, there can be no user accounts that are subordinate to the DN of the group to be deleted, unless your particular directory service allows this.  You will recieve output like this if not:

$ lgroupdel -m gssapi -G luserz

SASL/GSSAPI authentication started

SASL username: ldapbofh@FOOBAR.PVT

SASL SSF: 56

SASL data security layer installed.

ldap_sasl_interactive_bind_s: Success (0)

ldap_search_s: Success (0)

Matched DN: cn=luserz,ou=unix,dc=foobar,dc=pvt

Deleting POSIX group account - luserz....

ldap_delete: Operation not allowed on non-leaf (66)

        additional info: subordinate objects must be deleted first

POSIX Account deletion UNSUCCESSFUL.

.SH AUTHOR
Michael Brown <mikal@mikro\-net.com>
