.TH lsudomod 1 "February 20, 2017" uxdstools uxdstools

.SH NAME
lsudomod \- Modify SUDOer accounts in LDAP stores

.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 9
lsudomod [\-H <host URI>] [\-m <SASL mech>] [\-u <authcid>] [\-D <bind DN>] [\-p <passwd>] [\-P]

[\-A <SUDOer>] [\-C <cmd>,...] [\-O <option>,...] [\-R]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ul
lsudomod
is used to modify a SUDOer account into an LDAP datastore.  The idea is to provide easy access to data that may be modified often.  It requires that the sudo.schema sudoers LDAP schema be loaded into your LDAP directory service.

SASL authentication support is available if OpenLDAP libraries are linked against Cyrus\-SASL and are intact at compile time. This is mostly untested (except GSSAPI) but should be working with any mech the server has available (depending on your local SASL install). Krb5/GSSAPI support is available if Heimdal kerberos libraries are avaliable at compile time. Upon authentication, a kerberos ticket can be obtained and placed in the default or a custom credentials cache, and used for subsequent authentication calls with this or other programs (or any GSSAPI enabled client for that matter) in the uxdstools suite.

The program takes arguments to fill in neccesary data in order to correctly modify the SUDOer account.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-D
.ul
DN

Distinguished name to used to bind to LDAP directory. If no SASL support is intact, this defaults to a simple
bind operation. This can also be used with a be used with a mech (see \-m below as an authorization bind ident
ity (authzid).
.TP
\-p
.ul
passwd

Use passwd as password for authentication (Simple or SASL).
.TP
\-P
Prompt for password, used instead of specifying the password on the command line. With GSSAPI support, this in
put will be used to obtain a kerberos tgt.
.TP
\-K
.ul
FILE:/path/to/x509_certificate

With GSSAPI enabled, this allows for rudimentary PK-INIT authentication using an x509 certificate.  At this time it does not accept passphrases for private keys.  It will gain a kadmin/changepw ticket for use in changing principal passwords. Requires -u <krb5Principal> argument.
.TP
\-T
.ul
FILE:/path/to/keytab

With GSSAPI enabled, this allows for authentication using a Kerberos 5 keytab. It will gain a kadmin/changepw ticket for use in changing principal passwords. Requires -u <krb5Principal> argument.
.TP
\-H
.ul
host URI

LDAP server URI to access, optional as it default to what is in ldap.conf. "ldaps://" and "ldapi://" URIs are
OK, as long as your underlying OpenLDAP libs support this. e.g. "ldap://server.example.com"
.TP
\-m
.ul
mech

Mechanism used for SASL auth, e.g DIGEST-MD5, GSSAPI.
.TP
\-u
.ul
authcid

SASL auth identity used to gain access to the LDAP directory service. Format depends on the SASL mech being used... With GSSAPI no mech is required, this input will be used as the short principal name to gain a kerberos ticket granting ticket for auth.
.TP
\-r
.ul
realm

Realm for SASL identity, some callbacks need this.  Not really tested at this point.
.TP
\-c
.ul
ccache

Location for krb5 credentials cache. This can be a path, e.g. /tmp/krb5cc100 or preceded by 'METHOD:', as in FILE:/tmp/krb5cc100 or KCM:100. This is optional and if not selected will yield to the default kerberos context.
.TP
\-A 
.ul
user 

Name (sudoUser attribute) of the SUDOer acocunt you wish to modify.
.TP
\-B
.ul
sudoHost(s)

Hostname, IP address, IP network, or host netgroup (prefixed with a '+') on which the SUDOer is allowed to run commands.  Not required, 'ALL' populates this attribute by default if not selected.  If multiple entities are desired, then separate them with commas: e.g. -B host1,host2 (can also enclose the whole string in
.ul
single
quotes: e.g. -B 'host1,host2').
.TP
\-C
.ul  
sudoCommand(s)

Commands the users is allowed to run as root (or whatever user).  This populates the sudoCommand attribute with the input values.  If multiple commands are desired, then separate them with commas (if using ! to exclude commands enclose the whole string in
.ul
single
quotes): e.g. -C 'ALL,!/bin/sh,!/bin/ksh' 
.TP
\-O
.ul
sudoOption(s)

Options within sudo assinged to the account. This populates the sudoOption attribute with the input values.  If multiple options are desired, then separate them with commas (if using ! to use excluding options enclose the whole string in
.ul
single
quotes): e.g. -C '!authenticate,env_reset'
.TP
\-R
This option is used in conjunction with *either* -B, -C or -O to affect removal of the host(s), command(s) or options(s) selected from the SUDOer account.  
.TP
\-v|\-\-version 

Shows the version info and exits.
.TP
\-h|\-\-help 

Shows verbose output of options and exits.
.TP
\-d  Shows some debugging output from the command.

.SH AUTHOR
Michael Brown <mikal@bytepimps.net>

