.TH luserdel 1 "November 6, 2012" uxdstools uxdstools

.SH NAME
luserdel \- Delete POSIX user accounts in LDAP stores

.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 9
luserdel [\-H <host URI>] [\-m <SASL mech>] [\-u <authcid>] [\-D <bind DN>] [\-p <passwd>] [\-P]

[\-U <username>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ul
luserdel 
is used to delete a POSIX user account located in an LDAP datastore. It deletes the DN, all associated attributes, and the memberUid attribute in the former user account's primary group from the tree.

SASL authentication support is available if OpenLDAP libraries are linked against Cyrus\-SASL and are intact at compile time. This is mostly untested (except GSSAPI) but should be working with any mech the server has available (depending on your local SASL install). Krb5/GSSAPI support is available if Heimdal kerberos libraries are avaliable at compile time. Upon authentication, a kerberos ticket can be obtained and placed in the default or a custom credentials cache, and used for subsequent authentication calls with this or other programs (or any GSSAPI enabled client for that matter) in the uxdstools suite.

This program only takes one account argument, the uid name of the user account to be deleted.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-D
.ul
DN

Distinguished name to used to bind to LDAP directory. If no SASL support is intact, this defaults to a simple bind operation. This can also be used with a be used with a mech (see \-m below as an authorization bind identity (authzid).
.TP
\-p
.ul
passwd

Use passwd as password for authentication (Simple or SASL).
.TP
\-P
Prompt for password, used instead of specifying the password on the command line. With GSSAPI support, this input will be used to obtain a kerberos tgt.
.TP
\-K
.ul
FILE:/path/to/x509_certificate

With GSSAPI enabled, this allows for rudimentary PK-INIT authentication using an x509 certificate.  At this time it does not accept passphrases for private keys.  It will gain a kadmin/changepw ticket for use in changing principal passwords. Requires -u <krb5Principal> argument.
.TP
\-H
.ul
host URI

LDAP server URI to access, optional as it default to what is in ldap.conf. "ldaps://" and "ldapi://" URIs are OK, as long as your underlying OpenLDAP libs support this. e.g. "ldap://server.example.com"
.TP
\-m
.ul
mech

Mechanism used for SASL auth, e.g DIGEST-MD5, GSSAPI.
.TP
\-u
.ul
authcid

SASL auth identity used to gain access to the LDAP directory service. Format depends on the SASL mech being used... With GSSAPI no mech is required, this input will be used as the short principal name to gain a kerberos ticket granting ticket for auth.
.TP
\-r
.ul
realm

Realm for SASL identity, some callbacks need this.  Not really tested at this point.
.TP
\-c
.ul
ccache

Location for krb5 credentials cache. This can be a path, e.g. /tmp/krb5cc100 or preceded by 'METHOD:', as in FILE:/tmp/krb5cc100 or KCM:100. This is optional and if not selected will yield to the default kerberos context.
.TP
\-U
.ul
user

Name (uid attribute) of the user you wish to delete. Required. 

.TP
\-v|\-\-version

Shows the version info and exits.
.TP
\-h|\-\-help

Shows verbose output of options and exits.
.TP
\-d

Shows some debugging output from the command.

.SH GROUP MODIFICATION
    
The deleted user account's primary group data will be 
.ul
modified 
with the removal of the memberUid attribute that referred to the former user.


.SH AUTHOR
Michael Brown <mikal@mikro\-net.com>>
