.TH luseradd 1 "February 20, 2017" uxdstools uxdstools

.SH NAME
luseradd \- Add POSIX user accounts in LDAP stores

.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 9
luseradd [\-H <host URI>] [\-m <SASL mech>] [\-u <authcid>] [\-D <bind DN>] [\-p <passwd>] [\-P]

[\-U <username> \-G <groupname> \-f <givenName> \-l <sn>] [\-S <loginShell>] 

[\-X <homeDirectory>] [\-N <uidNumber>] [\-x <GECOS>] [-y] [-e]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ul
luseradd
is used to add a POSIX user account into an LDAP datastore.  The imported account includes all attributes neccesary to access and use UNIX systems. 

SASL authentication support is available if OpenLDAP libraries are linked against Cyrus\-SASL and are intact at compile time. This is mostly untested (except GSSAPI) but should be working with any mech the server has available (depending on your local SASL install). Krb5/GSSAPI support is available if Heimdal kerberos libraries are avaliable at compile time. Upon authentication, a kerberos ticket can be obtained and placed in the default or a custom credentials cache, and used for subsequent authentication calls with this or other programs (or any GSSAPI enabled client for that matter) in the uxdstools suite.

The program takes arguments to fill in neccesary data in order to correctly create the POSIX user account.  Once created, the account uid name is then added as a memberUid attribute to its primary group in the LDAP tree.  If the hdb schema from Heimdal exists in your LDAP server configuration, hdb-ldap attributes can be activated at compile time and will be added to the created user account.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-D
.ul
DN

Distinguished name to used to bind to LDAP directory. If no SASL support is intact, this defaults to a simple
bind operation. This can also be used with a be used with a mech (see \-m below as an authorization bind ident
ity (authzid).
.TP
\-p
.ul
passwd

Use passwd as password for authentication (Simple or SASL).
.TP
\-P
Prompt for password, used instead of specifying the password on the command line. With GSSAPI support, this in
put will be used to obtain a kerberos tgt.
.TP
\-H
.ul
host URI

LDAP server URI to access, optional as it default to what is in ldap.conf. "ldaps://" and "ldapi://" URIs are
OK, as long as your underlying OpenLDAP libs support this. e.g. "ldap://server.example.com"
.TP
\-m
.ul
mech

Mechanism used for SASL auth, e.g DIGEST-MD5, GSSAPI.
.TP
\-u
.ul
authcid

SASL auth identity used to gain access to the LDAP directory service. Format depends on the SASL mech being used... With GSSAPI no mech is required, this input will be used as the short principal name to gain a kerberos ticket granting ticket for auth.
.TP
\-r
.ul
realm

Realm for SASL identity, some callbacks need this.  Not really tested at this point.
.TP
\-c
.ul
ccache

Location for krb5 credentials cache. This can be a path, e.g. /tmp/krb5cc100 or preceded by 'METHOD:', as in FILE:/tmp/krb5cc100 or KCM:100. This is optional and if not selected will yield to the default kerberos context.
.TP
\-U 
.ul
user 

Name (uid attribute) of the user you wish to add.  Required. 
.TP
\-G 
.ul
group 

Name (cn attribute) of the group you wish add this user to and become its primary group. Required: a search is performed of this group's gidNumber and this value populates the same field of the user account. The description attr of this group also helps build gecos.
.TP
\-f 
.ul  
givenName

First name of user.  Populates the givenName attribute of the POSIX user account. Required, and helps build gecos attribute.
.TP
\-l
.ul
sn

Last name (surname) of user.  Populates the sn attribute of the POSIX user account. Required, and helps build gecos attribute.
.TP
\-S
.ul
loginShell

Default shell for user. Optional, defaults to "/bin/sh". Populates the loginShell attribute of the POSIX user account.
.TP
\-X
.ul
homeDirectory

Default home directory for user.  Optional, defaults to "/home/%uid". Populates the homeDirectory attribute of the POSIX user account.
.TP
\-N
.ul
uidNumber

UID number for the user.  Optional, there is a search done for the highest uidnumber in the directory, and one is added to this numeric to produce the default uidNumber populated.
.TP
\-x
.ul
GECOS

GECOS field. Optional, there is an automatic method to create this field, but this can be selected to create a customized string lieu of that facility.  Take care to enclose the string in quotes when setting this argument.
.TP
-y

With GSSAPI enabled, this will set an 8 character random string into the krb5Key (password) attribute of the user account.  This operation requires a ticket from the kadmin/changepw kerberos principal. This will obtain the ticket from that principal and place it into a cache located in /tmp/kacache_%uid (the user id) if used in combination with the -P, -p, or -K options.  Further calls can be made for the lifetime of the ticket (5 minutes) using the -m gssapi option without a password.
.TP
\-z
.ul
passwd

With GSSAPI enabled, this will set the krb5Key (password) attribute of the user account to the string <passwd>. The operation is performed identically to the -y switch above, with the exception that the password is arbitrarily set, rather than being a random string.
.TP
-e

With GSSAPI enabled, this will set the krb5PasswordEnd attribute to "20071231235959Z", effectively expiring the kerberos password of the account.

Support for OpenLDAP's ppolicy "pwdReset", Samba's "sambaPwdMustChange", and Microsoft AD's "accountExpired" are all supported in the code, but not exposed at this time. This support is forthcoming.
.TP
\-K
.ul
FILE:/path/to/x509_certificate

With GSSAPI enabled, this allows for rudimentary PK-INIT authentication using an x509 certificate.  At this time it does not accept passphrases for private keys.  It will gain a kadmin/changepw ticket for use in changing principal passwords. Requires -u <krb5Principal> argument.
.TP
\-T
.ul
FILE:/path/to/keytab

With GSSAPI enabled, this allows for authentication using a Kerberos 5 keytab. It will gain a kadmin/changepw ticket for use in changing principal passwords. Requires -u <krb5Principal> argument.
.TP
\-v|\-\-version 

Shows the version info and exits.
.TP
\-h|\-\-help 

Shows verbose output of options and exits.
.TP
\-d  Shows some debugging output from the command.
.SH QMAIL
    With Qmail attributes enabled there are two additional options:
.TP
\-Q
.ul
fqdn

FQDN of mail host for Qmail.  Populates the mailHost attribute.
.TP
\-W
.ul
email

Alternative email address for use with Qmail.  Poplulates the mailAlternativeAddress attribute.

.SH USER STRUCTURE

    A default user's ldif looks something like this:

    # luser, slakaz, unix, foobar.pvt
    dn: uid=luser,cn=slakaz,ou=unix,dc=foobar,dc=pvt
    objectClass: top
    objectClass: person
    objectClass: inetOrgPerson
    objectClass: organizationalPerson
    objectClass: posixAccount
    objectClass: shadowAccount
    objectClass: simpleSecurityObject
    cn: luser
    sn: Added
    givenName: Luser
    uid: luser
    mail: luser@foobar.pvt
    uidNumber: 55555
    gidNumber: 1111
    gecos: Added,Luser;SLAKAZ System Group
    homeDirectory: /home/luser
    loginShell: /bin/sh
    carLicense: XxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxX
    userPassword:: RFVNTVk=

    If hdb-ldap is enabled, kerberos 5 related atrributes
    are added to the user:

    # luser, slakaz, unix, foobar.pvt
    dn: uid=luser,cn=slakaz,ou=unix,dc=foobar,dc=pvt
    objectClass: top
    objectClass: person
    objectClass: inetOrgPerson
    objectClass: organizationalPerson
    objectClass: posixAccount
    objectClass: shadowAccount
    objectClass: krb5Principal
    objectClass: krb5KDCEntry
    objectClass: simpleSecurityObject
    cn: luser
    sn: Added
    givenName: Luser
    uid: luser
    mail: luser@foobar.pvt
    uidNumber: 55555
    gidNumber: 1111
    gecos: Luser,Larry;SLAKAS System Group
    homeDirectory: /home/luser
    loginShell: /bin/sh
    carLicense: XxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxX
    userPassword: {K5KEY}luser@FOOBAR.PVT
    krb5Key: 0
    krb5PrincipalName: luser@FOOBAR.PVT
    krb5MaxLife: 86400
    krb5MaxRenew: 604800
    krb5KDCFlags: 126
    krb5PasswordEnd: 20071231235959Z

    {K5KEY} is hardcoded for userPassword, of course
    assuming you use smbk5pwd in your LDAP server's
    slapd.  This will be made configurable in a future
    release. For now, ldapmodify can change this for you.

    The gecos attributes is built by concatenating the sn,
    givenName and description (from primary group) attributes 
    like so:

    sn,givenName;description
     ^      ^         ^
     |      |         |
    Luser,Larry;Slackas Winner Crew
    
    would be a typical gecos.


.SH AUTHOR
Michael Brown <mikal@bytepimps.net>

